---
layout: post
title:  'Coding Test Series [Part7]: 그래프(Graph) - DFS, BFS'
description: 
date:   2022-07-03 15:01:35 +0300
image:  '/images/algorithm_logo.webp'
logo_image:  '/images/algorithm_logo.webp'
categories: CS
tags: Coding_Test
---
---

**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}

---

# DFS

Given a graph, how can we find all of its vertices, and how can we find all paths between two vertices?  

The depth-first search algorithm is ideal in solving these kinds of problems because it can explore all paths from the start vertex to all other vertices  

In Graph theory, the depth-first search algorithm (abbreviated as DFS) is mainly used to:  

- Traverse all vertices in a “graph”
- Traverse all paths between any two vertices in a “graph”.

## Traversing all Vertices

## Traversing all paths between two vertices

# BFS

the “breadth-first search” algorithm can traverse all vertices of a “graph” and traverse all paths between two vertices. However, the most advantageous use case of “breadth-first search” is to efficiently find the shortest path between two vertices in a “graph” where all edges have equal and positive weights.  

Although the “depth-first search” algorithm can find the shortest path between two vertices in a “graph” with equal and positive weights, it must traverse all paths between two vertices before finding the shortest one. The “breadth-first search” algorithm, in most cases, can find the shortest path without traversing all paths. This is because when using "breadth-first search", as soon as a path between the source vertex and target vertex is found, it is guaranteed to be the shortest path between the two nodes.  

In Graph theory, the primary use cases of the “breadth-first search” (“BFS”) algorithm are:  

- Traversing all vertices in the “graph”
- Finding the shortest path between two vertices in a graph where all edges have equal and positive weights.

## Traversing all Vertices

## Shortest Path Between Two Vertices 

# Backtracking